Technical debt is something that even the most careful developers have to deal with at some point. On occasion technical debt is done on purpose as a way of pushing problems to the future. but when able, it should be minimized as much as possible. You have recommended an architecture based on a series of Laravel full stack applications. I have reason to believe there is is a better architecture, which I will present to you today. While a host of Laravel full stack applications may be easier to design, a singular API based monolithic back-end will cause less technical debt because there is less code, dependencies are easier to manage, and there are fewer and less complex API's.

First and foremost, fewer applications means less code. Not only will the code base be smaller because there is less Laravel code to deal with. More importantly it allows us to reuse code through out the back-end, rather than having to repeat the same code again and again in each project. It is true that we could create a library in order to store often used blocks of code, but that is yet another project to maintain. Additionally all the code is in the same place making it easier to identify redundant blocks of code. Although I do not think redundant code will be common at the beginning due to the fact that we will be following an architectural plan. I do believe as time goes on it is easy for redundant code to sneak into a code base, especially one that is fractured.

Secondly, we must avoid <i>dependency hell</i> at all costs. More projects means more dependencies. More dependencies means a higher probability that each application is running different versions and different flavors of dependencies. Updating dependencies can bring a project to its knees, whether that is updating Laravel itself or any dependencies we may require. modernizing or updating a singular application is much easier that updating a series of them one after another. If updating a Laravel version takes a weeks worth of work per application, then why would we encourage an architecture that creates more applications to maintain.

Last, but certainly not least, having a singular back-end application means we can have fewer API connections. In my honest opinion this is the singular greatest reason to use a monolithic architecture. API's are one of the hardest things to architect, develop, and maintain. Designing or developing a sub-optimal API can cause mountains of technical debt for the future. Causing engineers not only to redesign those poorly written API's, but possibly all the systems those API's have to interact with. The applications we intend to create are all interconnected. Using an architecture based on multiple full stack applications, means that we will require a web of API's to connect all of the back-ends properly. Debugging and maintenance across a tangled web of API's will be a nightmare. Think of the technical debt that will be caused by having API's on different versions throughout our network of applications. Simply updating our standards for API's could shut down development of new features for months.

In conclusion, while a host of Laravel full stack applications may be easier to design, a singular API based monolithic back-end will cause less technical debt because there is less code, dependencies are easier to manage, and there are fewer and less complex API's. I would like to add as a closing note, I very much encourage any and all criticism of my ideas. Please consider my point of view and inform me if you have a better perspective on the technical debt my architecture may incur.
\
P.S. These were not my only reasons, but they were certainly the ones I found most important. If further discussion or explanation is desired, please let me know

#essay